Upgrading smartcontract (#735)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/build/guides/conventions/upgrading-contracts.mdx

```

Then we run the upgrade, and verify that the upgrade worked:

```rust
client.upgrade(&new_wasm_hash);
assert_eq!(2, client.version());
```

## Build the contract

To build the contract `.wasm` files, run `stellar contract build` in both `upgradeable_contract/old_contract` and `upgradeable_contract/new_contract` in that order.

Both `.wasm` files should be found in both contract `target` directories after building both contracts:

```
target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_old_contract.wasm
```

```
target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_new_contract.wasm
```

## Run the contract

If you have [`stellar-cli`] installed, you can invoke contract functions. Deploy the old contract and install the Wasm for the new contract.

Navigate to to `upgradeable_contract/old_contract`

```sh
stellar contract deploy \
  --wasm target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_old_contract.wasm  --source alice  \
  --network testnet
```

- When you deploy a smart contract to a network, you need to specify an identity that will be used to sign the transactions. Change the `alice` to your own [identity].

> [identity]: ../../smart-contracts/getting-started/setup#configure-an-identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[identity]: ../../smart-contracts/getting-started/setup.mdx#configure-an-identity
```

I'm not super-sure of all the details/benefits, but docusaurus [recommends using the file extension in links](https://docusaurus.io/docs/2.x/markdown-features/links) (at the end of the page), so we try to do that whenever possible.

You should see this similar contract ID after you have ran the deploy command:

```
CAS6FKBXGVXFGU2SPPPJJOIULJNPMPR6NVKWLOQP24SZJPMB76TGH7Y3
```

Navigate to `upgradeable_contract/new_contract` and run the following command:

> ```
> stellar contract install \
> --source-account alice \
> --wasm target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_new_contract.wasm \
> --rpc-url https://soroban-testnet.stellar.org:443 \--network-passphrase "Test SDF Network ; September 2015" \
> --network testnet
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
stellar contract install \
  --wasm target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_new_contract.wasm \
  --source alice \
  --network testnet
```
````

Since we're specifying `--network testnet`, we don't need to specify the RPC URL or network passphrase parameters (in fact, iirc they'll conflict and the command will fail?). Also, indentation and code language.

You should see this Wasm hash from the install command:

```
aa24c81289997ad815489b29db337b53f284cca5aba86e9a8ae5cef7d31842c2
```

> You also need to call the `init` method so the `admin` is set. This requires us to setup some [identities].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to call the `init` method so the `admin` address is set. This requires us to setup some [identities].
```

[identities]: ../../smart-contracts/getting-started/setup.mdx#configure-an-identity

Given that we have previously setup an identity, to get the identity address, we run the following command:

```sh
stellar keys address alice
```

Example output:

```
GCJ2R5ST4UQP2D4F54Y3IIAQKPMLMEEZCNZ3PEDKY4AGDYEMYUC2MOO7
```

> Navigate to `upgradeable_contract/old_contract` and now call `init` with this key (make sure to substitute with the key you generated):

Reviewer: I don't _think_ the "Navigate to ..." step is necessary, and we can just call `init`, since it's already deployed to the network, and we're calling it using the `--id CAS6...` argument. That said, it's not gonna hurt anything to be in the directory. So, I'm fine with it either in or out.

```sh
stellar contract invoke \
  --id CAS6FKBXGVXFGU2SPPPJJOIULJNPMPR6NVKWLOQP24SZJPMB76TGH7Y3 \
  --source alice \
  --network testnet \
  -- \
  init \
  --admin GCJ2R5ST4UQP2D4F54Y3IIAQKPMLMEEZCNZ3PEDKY4AGDYEMYUC2MOO7
```

> - `CAS6FKBXGVXFGU2SPPPJJOIULJNPMPR6NVKWLOQP24SZJPMB76TGH7Y3` is the contract ID we got when we deployed the `old_contract`.
> 
> Invoke the `version` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our deployed `old_contract` address is `CAS6FKBXGVXFGU2SPPPJJOIULJNPMPR6NVKWLOQP24SZJPMB76TGH7Y3`. You may need to replace this value with your own. Invoke the `version` function of the contract:
```

```sh
stellar contract invoke \
  --id CAS6FKBXGVXFGU2SPPPJJOIULJNPMPR6NVKWLOQP24SZJPMB76TGH7Y3 \
  --source alice \
  --network testnet \
  -- \
  version

```

The following output should occur using the code above:

```json
1
```

Now upgrade the contract. Notice the `--source` must be the identity name matching the address passed to the `init` function.

```sh
stellar contract invoke \
  --id CAS6FKBXGVXFGU2SPPPJJOIULJNPMPR6NVKWLOQP24SZJPMB76TGH7Y3 \
  --source alice \
  --network testnet \
  -- \

>    upgrade \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  upgrade \
```

## How it works

> When upgrading a contract, the key function used is `e.deployer().update_current_contract_wasm`, which takes the WASM hash of the new contract as a parameter. Here’s a step-by-step breakdown of how this process works:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When upgrading a contract, the key function used is `e.deployer().update_current_contract_wasm`, which takes the Wasm hash of the new contract as a parameter. Here’s a step-by-step breakdown of how this process works:
```

I know it's a nitpick, they like it to be capitalized like `Wasm`

}
```

- `e: Env`: The environment object representing the current state of the blockchain.

> - `new_wasm_hash: BytesN<32>`: The hash of the new Wasm code for the contract.

Reviewer: Can we specify here (or somewhere else? [if it's not already]) that the Wasm bytecode must _already_ be installed/present on the ledger.

- The function first retrieves the admin's address from the contract's storage.
- It then requires the admin's authorization (`admin.require_auth()`) to proceed.

> - Finally, it updates the contract with the new Wasm code (`e.deployer().update_current_contract_wasm(new_wasm_hash)`).

Reviewer: Let's clarify that it's the **contract instance** that is updated to "point to" the installed bytecode (identified by the hash). I think I worded that badly, but I hope it makes sense lol

4. The `update_current_contract_wasm` host function will also emit a `SYSTEM` contract [event] that contains the old and new wasm reference, allowing downstream users to be notified when a contract they use is updated. The event structure will have `topics = ["executable_update", old_executable: ContractExecutable, old_executable: ContractExecutable]` and `data = []`.

> [here]: https://docs.rs/soroban-sdk/20.0.2/soroban_sdk/struct.Env.html#method.update_current_contract_wasm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[here]: https://docs.rs/soroban-sdk/latest/soroban_sdk/deploy/struct.Deployer.html#method.update_current_contract_wasm
```

Let's...

1. change this to the `latest` version of the SDK
2. point to the Deployer struct, because that's where the `update_current_contract_wasm` function lives

target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_new_contract.wasm
```

## Run the contract

If you have [`stellar-cli`] installed, you can invoke contract functions. Deploy the old contract and install the Wasm for the new contract.

Navigate to to `upgradeable_contract/old_contract`

```sh
stellar contract deploy \

>   --wasm target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_old_contract.wasm  --source 0xkodesage  \
>   --network testnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --wasm target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_old_contract.wasm  \
  --source alice  \
  --network testnet
```

```

- When you deploy a smart contract to a network, you need to specify an identity that will be used to sign the transactions. Change the `0xkodesage` to your own [identity].

[identity]: ../../smart-contracts/getting-started/setup#configure-an-identity

> You should see this similar contract ID after you have ran the deploy command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see a similar contract ID after the deploy command is successfully complete:
```

```
CAS6FKBXGVXFGU2SPPPJJOIULJNPMPR6NVKWLOQP24SZJPMB76TGH7Y3
```

> Navigate to to `upgradeable_contract/new_contract` and run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to `upgradeable_contract/new_contract` and run the following command:
```

```

> stellar contract install --source-account 0xkodesage  --wasm target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_new_contract.wasm  --rpc-url https://soroban-testnet.stellar.org:443 --network-passphrase "Test SDF Network ; September 2015"   --network testnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stellar contract install \
  --wasm target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/soroban_upgradeable_contract_new_contract.wasm \
  --source alice  \
  --network testnet
```

Let's follow the same "layout" of the other stellar cli commands

```

You should see this Wasm hash from the install command:

```
aa24c81289997ad815489b29db337b53f284cca5aba86e9a8ae5cef7d31842c2
```

You also need to call the `init` method so the `admin` is set. This requires us to setup some [identities].

> [identities]: ../../smart-contracts/getting-started/setup#configure-an-identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[identities]: ../../smart-contracts/getting-started/setup.mdx#configure-an-identity
```

> Given that I have previously setup my own identity, to get the identity address, we run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given that we have previously setup an identity, to get the identity address, we run the following command:
```

```sh

> stellar keys address 0xkodesage

Reviewer: let's make the name of the identity alice or keep it acc1 here (and wherever else we use it)
